Grateful for this clean-up Please allow me to express my sincere appreciation to you and your members of the SAPS Academy for the clean-up operation which was held on Saturday morning 8 June 2019. As manageress of Palm Village I was sent photos of all the garbage collected by your members. The garbage is caused by vagrants who have made the municipal grounds around Palm Village a place to reside and are a persistent problem. As residents, we have in the past also made attempts to clean up the mess occasionally, but the vagrants seem to be growing in numbers despite efforts by Law Enforcement to remove them. However, the manner in which your members performed the clean-up operation will hopefully send out a strong message to these vagrants to refrain from entering and illegally residing on the premises. Best of luck with the important task you perform in training young women and men to perform a highly challenging and thankless task.
– Cathy van Huyssteen, acting manager/chairman Palmoord, Oudtshoorn Rather planting than knitting Possibly I am devoid of a feeling of fun and lack insight into the psyche of the knitters who wish to hang a knitted item in 2020 trees in Oudtshoorn. Having fun while working in a group is one thing, but this project can hardly be of any use to the town. Knitting a jersey for a person of strained circumstances would be more appropriate! Numerous complaints are recorded week after week in Die Hoorn, re litter in the town’s streets. What happens to the woollen artefact after a few days / weeks in the sun? More litter! If the group wants to improve the appearance of the town – why not set an aim of planting 2020 trees, indigenous of course, and watch them attract birds, etc. That is true beauty! The numerous trees planted by a civic minded Katot Meyer at the high school fields are already showing promise after two years! That is a worthwhile project!
– William Gould, Oudtshoorn Kom ons vier Oudtshoorn Aitsa! Aitsa! Dit doen my hart goed om te sien hoe baie mense besluit het om ons dorp mooi en skoon te maak. As dit so aangaan word Oudtshoorn een van die dae as die mooiste en skoonste dorp vereer. Dan moet julle sien hoe wapper die vlae, die trompoppies voor en die boereorkes, met groot lawaai, agterna. Ons is baie dankbaar vir mense wat omgee vir hul dorp en gewillig is om dit mooi en skoon te hou. Julle verdien ’n beloning. Ek doen ’n beroep op Oudtshoor­niete om julle dankbaarheid te betuig (betoon) en aan die hardwerkendes ’n lekker opskop (makietie) om die braai­vleis­vure te reël. Dit moet sowaar ’n regte jollie-patrollie-affêre wees. Almal wat bydra tot die funksie word genooi en werkers hartlik bedank. Ja, ’n lekker geselligheid en die wat nog kan, kom maak litte los met heerlike boeremusiek. Ek maak staat op julle. Mense, kom help gerus met die reëlings, wie dit mag aangaan.
– Cecile Ungerer, Oudtshoorn