Liyema Mabuya (16), team captain for the u.17 Oudtshoorn Football Club, with his coach André Alexander. Photo: Angelique Erasmus By Angelique Erasmus
IT all started with the dream of Liyema Mabuya (16), a high school learner from Oudtshoorn – the dream of football being a sport played by Oudts-hoorn learners in town and at schools. After persistence, many letters and lots of administration, Liyema’s dream realised and Oudts-hoorn’s first football academy was founded. “After contacting André Alexander, co-ordinator of the Eden District Sport Academy, everything started falling into place,” Liyema says. “I started last year in November, and first went to talk to the school. “My next step was to start a Whats­App group, asking all my friends and people I know who might be interested in playing football.” The club started with 15 players. Since then 44 enthusiastic players have joined. The young football players will play their first match on 22 June in Lategansvlei – in u.15, u.17 and u.19 categories against the Stonebrokers Football Club in Calitzdorp. “Our practice shirts are blue, the same as the colour of our main sponsor.
“However, our match shirts are in orange which is also the colour of the Oudtshoorn Football League,” an excited Liyema adds. This teenager has big dreams for the club and hopes that players will be developed and might even one day play professional football. He also hopes that the club will become sustainable and for all players to realise their passion and thrive in the game. According to Alexander, who coaches the team, the players have only been practising for two months, but are truely focused and enjoy being part of a team. Alexander met Liyema in November after he had contacted him at the Eden District Sport Aca-demy. Liyema told him about his dream of a football team for Oudtshoorn. Alexander has been in Oudtshoorn for almost a year after being transferred from Cape Town. “Liyema walked into my office one afternoon and asked me if I knew about a football coach as he couldn’t find someone. “I jumped at the opportunity as I am a licensed UEFA B coach, and got my licence in Scotland in 2004.” Alexander says he told Liyema to get 12 players but the young man replied that he will get 30 players! “I am blown away by this young man’s passion and his love for football,” says Alexander. “Not only are these boys being taught about football, but they are being taught life skills, and the team decided that they want to be role models for the u.13 and u.15 players of the academy. “I am looking forward to big things in the future. Watch this space!”