Dear friends
The approaching end of the Jewish year is tradi­tio­nally a time for looking both backwards and for­wards, for reflecting on the old year that is about to pass while preparing ourselves for the new one soon to be ushered in. Whether at the individual level or for our community as a whole, the past year has undoubtedly posed many difficult challenges. That being said, we must always resist the impulse to simply sink into despondency. As Jews, we remain steadfast in our faith that the potential for rebuilding and renewal is built into the very fabric of Creation. Rosh Hashanah epitomizes this potential for regeneration. There is always the stirring of a new illumination as the sound of the shofar awakens us from slumber and despair to the power innate in our souls to return to G-d, to rekindle the Great Light and to reignite the treasure of new life. Our tradition offers us the blessing of rebirth every year, an opportunity to commit ourselves to the po­werful energy that Teshuvah bestows upon us to overcome the debilitating forces of evil and ne­ga­tivity, both within ourselves and in the societies in which we live. Teshuvah, literally meaning “return”, is the Divinely ordained process of taking stock, changing course and “returning” to the source of the innate goodness that is within everyone of us. This is the state we enter into when we practice a return to G-d who awaits us, and gives us the strength to achieve actualization of good in this world. We sometimes forget that the aggressive capa­ci­ty we waste on conflict with others can be har­nes­sed to fight injustice, alleviate suffering and create harmony within. The path of Teshuvah gives us strength and inspiration to those who seek to turn judgement into compassion, fear into courage and selfishness into kindness. When we do Teshuvah, we create armour for ourselves in the battle against our own feelings of impatience, inadequacy, resentment and hostility. G-d will rouse us to action by reminding us that our real, in­trinsic selves remain pure, regardless of our past errors. It is also when we discard our ego masks and put our trust in the L-rd that we can genuinely go about bringing peace. justice and security to our world. Rosh Hashanah overcomes despair and returns us to the resplendent Light! May each of us be blessed to reach a full individual Teshuva this year to bring the entire world to its full potential.
– The Chairman, Oudtshoorn Hebrew Congregation
Letter from the Jewish Community