Current and former presidents of Skål visited Oudtshoorn on Tuesday as part of an official visit to the Garden Route area and an official Skål lunch on Wednesday in Knysna. On the photo, taken at a typical South African braai on Tuesday evening at the Turnberry Boutique Hotel in Oudtshoorn, are from left Niel Els (Skål International Junior Vice President of the Skal Council), Lavonne Wittman (president Skål International), Fiona Angelico (president Skål South Africa) and Andrew Rogers (president Skål Garden Route). Photo: Schalk le Roux CURRENT and former presidents of Skål visited Oudtshoorn on Tuesday as part of an official visit to the Garden Route area and an official Skål lunch yesterday in Knysna. Skål is a professional organisation of tourism leaders around the world, promoting global tourism and friendship. It is the only international group uniting all branches of the travel and tourism industry. Its members, the industry’s managers and executives, meet at local, national, regional and international levels to “Do Business among Friends”. The visit to Oudtshoorn and the Garden Route this week was attented by the current world president, La­vonne Wittmann, from Pretoria. She is the first woman from Africa to head Skål International. Also attenting was the international junior vice president of the Skal Council, Niel Els, who is also the managing director of the Turnberry Boutique Hotel in Oudtshoorn, as well as the South African national president, Fiona Angelico, and the presidents from Cape Town, Wine-lands, Garden Route, Nelson Mandela Bay and Pretoria. The visiting Skålleaugues followed an exciting itinerary along the Garden Route and the Klein Karoo, amongst it a traditional South African Braai at Turnberry Hotel in Oudts-hoorn and a zip-line adventure at the Cango Caves Estate. • Skål International has approximately 15 000 members in 400 clubs throughout more than 90 countries. The organisation is governed by an executive committee of six members, elected during the World Congress, hosted by a different country each year. This allows members first-hand observation of the travel and tourism potential around the world. South Africa has six very active clubs: Cape Town, Cape Wine­lands, Garden Route (Klein Karoo included), Nelson Mandela Bay, Pretoria and Durban.